Standards of the Comics Code Authority for editorial matter as originally
adopted

Source: Comix, a History of Comic Books in America, by Les Daniels,
copyright 1971 by Outerbridge and Deinstfrey, New York. Reprinted in Ink 19
Magazine, January 1994.

General Standards Part A:

  1. Crimes shall never be presented in such a way as to create sympathy
     for the criminal, to promote distrust of the forces of law and
     justice, or to inspire others with a desire to imitate criminals.
  2. No comics shall explicitly present the unique details and methods of a
     crime.
  3. Policemen, judges, government officials, and respected institutions
     shall never be presented in such a way as to create disrespect for
     established authority.
  4. If crime is depicted it shall be as a sordid and unpleasant activity.
  5. Criminals shall not be presented so as to be rendered glamorous or to
     occupy a position which creates the desire for emulation.
  6. In every instance good shall triumph over evil and the criminal
     punished for his misdeeds.
  7. Scenes of excessive violence shall be prohibited. Scenes of brutal
     torture, excessive and unnecessary knife and gun play, physical agony,
     gory and gruesome crime shall be eliminated.
  8. No unique or unusual methods of concealing weapons shall be shown.
  9. Instances of law enforcement officers dying as a result of a
     criminal's activities should be discouraged.
 10. The crime of kidnapping shall never be portrayed in any detail, nor
     shall any profit accrue to the abductor or kidnapper. The criminal or
     the kidnapper must be punished in every case.
 11. The letter of the word "crime" on a comics magazine shall never be
     appreciably greater than the other words contained in the title. The
     word "crime" shall never appear alone on a cover.
 12. Restraint in the use of the word "crime" in titles or subtitles shall
     be exercised.

General Standards Part B:

  1. No comic magazine shall use the word "horror" or "terror" in its
     title.
  2. All scenes of horror, excessive bloodshed, gory or gruesome crimes,
     depravity, lust, sadism, masochism shall not be permitted.
  3. All lurid, unsavory, gruesome illustrations shall be eliminated.
  4. Inclusion of stories dealing with evil shall be used or or shall be
     published only where the intent is to illustrate a moral issue and in
     no case shall evil be presented alluringly nor so as to injure the
     sensibilities of the reader.
  5. Scenes dealing with, or instruments associated with walking dead,
     torture vampires and vampirism, ghouls, cannibalism, and werewolfism
     are prohibited.

General Standards Part C:

All elements or techniques not specifically mentioned herein, but which are
contrary to the spirit and intent of the Code, and are considered
violations of good taste or decency, shall be prohibited.

Dialogue:

  1. Profanity, obscenity, smut, vulgarity, or words or symbols which have
     acquired undesirable meanings are forbidden.
  2. Special precautions to avoid references to physical afflictions or
     deformities shall be taken.
  3. Although slang and colloquialisms are acceptable, excessive use should
     be discouraged and wherever possible good grammar shall be employed.

Religion:

Ridicule or attack on any religious or racial group is never permissible.

Costume:

  1. Nudity in any form is prohibited, as is indecent or undue exposure.
  2. Suggestive and salacious illustration or suggestive posture is
     unacceptable.
  3. All characters shall be depicted in dress reasonably acceptable to
     society.
  4. Females shall be drawn realistically without exaggeration of any
     physical qualities.

NOTE: It should be recognized that all prohibitions dealing with costume,
dialogue, or artwork applies as specifically to the cover of a comic
magazine as they do to the contents.

Marriage and Sex:

  1. Divorce shall not be treated humorously nor shall be represented as
     desirable.
  2. Illicit sex relations are neither to be hinted at or portrayed.
     Violent love scenes as well as sexual abnormalities are unacceptable.
  3. Respect for parents, the moral code, and for honorable behavior shall
     be fostered. A sympathetic understanding of the problems of love is
     not a license for moral distortion.
  4. The treatment of love-romance stories shall emphasize the value of the
     home and the sanctity of marriage.
  5. Passion or romantic interest shall never be treated in such a way as
     to stimulate the lower and baser emotions.
  6. Seduction and rape shall never be shown or suggested.
  7. Sex perversion or any inference to same is strictly forbidden.

Code For Advertising Matter:

     Liquor and tobacco advertizing is not acceptable.
  1. Advertisement of sex or sex instructions books are unacceptable.
  2. The sale of picture postcards, "pin-ups," "art studies," or any other
     reproduction of nude or semi-nude figures is prohibited.
  3. Advertising for the sale of knives, concealable weapons, or realistic
     gun facsimiles is prohibited.
  4. Advertising for the sale of fireworks is prohibited.
  5. Advertising dealing with the sale of gambling equipment or printed
     matter dealing with gambling shall not be accepted.
  6. Nudity with meretricious purpose and salacious postures shall not be
     permitted in the advertising of any product; clothed figures shall
     never be presented in such a way as to be offensive or contrary to
     good taste or morals.
  7. To the best of his ability, each publisher shall ascertain that all
     statements made in advertisements conform to the fact and avoid
     misinterpretation.
  8. Advertisement of medical, health, or toiletry products of questionable
     nature are to be rejected. Advertisements for medical, health or
     toiletry products endorsed by the American Medical Association, or the
     American Dental Association, shall be deemed acceptable if they
     conform with all other conditions of the advertising code.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
